Update FreeIPA instructions (#153)
Pelagicore/software-factory-blueprint: docs/articles/infrastructure/ci-cd/freeipa.rst

    uid=733200000(admin) gid=733200000(admins) groups=733200000(admins)

Install replica
---------------

A replica server is a FreeIPA server set up to replicate data. If the master
goes down, clients will still be able to authenticate users against the replica.
If the replica is also setup as a DNS and CA, the replica can be set as master
in case the master is lost and disaster recovery has to be performed.

Install required packages:
.. code-block:: none

    apt install -y freeipa-server freeipa-server-dns

> If you havn't already, enroll the replica server to the domain as described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have not already, enroll the replica server to the domain as described
```

above.

On the master server, first get a ticket with an admin user:

.. code-block:: none

    kinit jdoe

Then add the FQDN of the replica into the ipaservers group:

.. code-block:: none

    ipa hostgroup-add-member ipaservers --hosts replica1.example.com

> Check that the result of command ipa hostgroup-find:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check that the result of command 'ipa hostgroup-find' is:
```

Reviewer: I remember there is some formatting we use for commands and paths etc. I think it is italic, but at the moment I can't remember if that is single ' or something else. If you write a command in-line this should be used, but it's not necessary inside code-blocks.

.. code-block:: none

    ipa hostgroup-find
    -------------------
    1 hostgroup matched
    -------------------
      Host-group: ipaservers
      Description: IPA server hosts
      Member hosts: ipa-server.example.com, replica1.example.com
    ----------------------------
    Number of entries returned 1
    ----------------------------

> And also that ipa host-find returns both master and replica servers.

Reviewer: Same as the above comment here for the formatting of the command

.. code-block:: none

    ipa host-find

> On the replica server, modify /etc/hosts and add replica1:

Reviewer: ...and here for the path.

.. code-block:: none
    :caption: Example /etc/hosts

    192.0.2.6 replica1.example.com replica1

If you use FreeIPA as your DNS, you may also want to add a reverse DNS entry for

> the replica but it's not necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the replica but it is not necessary.
```

Then start the setup:

.. code-block:: none

    ipa-replica-install
    WARNING: conflicting time&date synchronization service 'chronyd' will
    be disabled in favor of ntpd

    ipa         : ERROR    Reverse DNS resolution of address 192.0.2.5 (ipa-server.example.com) failed. Clients may not function properly. Please check your DNS setup. (Note that this check queries IPA DNS directly and ignores /etc/hosts.)
    Continue? [no]: yes
    Run connection check to master
    Connection check OK
    Configuring NTP daemon (ntpd)
      [1/4]: stopping ntpd
      [2/4]: writing configuration
      [3/4]: configuring ntpd to start on boot
      [4/4]: starting ntpd
    Done configuring NTP daemon (ntpd).
    Configuring directory server (dirsrv). Estimated time: 1 minute

.. tip::
    It's ok if ipa-replica-install gives a warning message about "Reverse DNS
    resolution". The replica will function without it.
    

Setup DNS on replica
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> It's a good idea to setup DNS on at least one of your replicas and use it as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a good idea to setup DNS on at least one of your replicas and use it as a
```

    Following DNS servers are configured in /etc/resolv.conf: 198.51.100.53, 192.0.2.66, 192.0.2.67
    Do you want to configure these servers as DNS forwarders? [yes]: no
    Enter an IP address for a DNS forwarder, or press Enter to skip: 192.0.2.66
    DNS forwarder 192.0.2.66 added. You may add another.
    Enter an IP address for a DNS forwarder, or press Enter to skip: 192.0.2.67
    DNS forwarder 192.0.2.67 added. You may add another.
    Enter an IP address for a DNS forwarder, or press Enter to skip: 
    Checking DNS forwarders, please wait ...
    Do you want to search for missing reverse zones? [yes]: 

    The following operations may take some minutes to complete.
    Please wait until the prompt is returned.

If the installation fails, follow the instructions in the troubleshooting section
to remove the installation and start again by setting up the replica.

You can verify that DNS is working with dig.

.. code-block:: none

    dig ipa-server.example.com @127.0.0.1
    dig ipa-server.example.com @192.0.2.5

Setup CA on replica
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Make sure /bin/java exists, otherwise symlink it to the proper binary. On ubuntu

> 16.04 it's /usr/bin/java . Otherwise it will cause the certificate server to not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16.04 it is /usr/bin/java . Otherwise it will cause the certificate server to not
```
Also format the path to match formatting rules.

start/restart during installation. 

.. code-block:: none

    ln -s /usr/bin/java /bin/java

Then have the Directory Manager password ready and start the installation:

.. code-block:: none

    ipa-ca-install

> If the installation fails, follow the instructions in the troubleshooting section

Reviewer: A link here to the Troubleshooting section which is meant.

    uid=733200000(admin) gid=733200000(admins) groups=733200000(admins)

Install replica
---------------

A replica server is a FreeIPA server set up to replicate data. If the master
goes down, clients will still be able to authenticate users against the replica.
If the replica is also setup as a DNS and CA, the replica can be set as master
in case the master is lost and disaster recovery has to be performed.

Install required packages:
.. code-block:: none

    apt install -y freeipa-server freeipa-server-dns

If you havn't already, enroll the replica server to the domain as described
above.

On the master server, first get a ticket with an admin user:

.. code-block:: none

    kinit jdoe

Then add the FQDN of the replica into the ipaservers group:

.. code-block:: none

>     ipa hostgroup-add-member ipaservers --hosts replica1.example.test

Reviewer 2: the domain doesn't match the rest of the documentation.

>     ipa hostgroup-add-member ipaservers --hosts replica1.example.test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ipa hostgroup-add-member ipaservers --hosts replica1.example.com
```

And also that ipa host-find returns both master and replica servers.

.. code-block:: none

    ipa host-find

On the replica server, modify /etc/hosts and add replica1:

.. code-block:: none
    :caption: Example /etc/hosts

    192.0.2.6 replica1.example.com replica1

If you use FreeIPA as your DNS, you may also want to add a reverse DNS entry for
the replica but it's not necessary.

Then start the setup:

.. code-block:: none

    ipa-replica-install
    WARNING: conflicting time&date synchronization service 'chronyd' will
    be disabled in favor of ntpd

    ipa         : ERROR    Reverse DNS resolution of address 192.0.2.5 (ipa-server.example.com) failed. Clients may not function properly. Please check your DNS setup. (Note that this check queries IPA DNS directly and ignores /etc/hosts.)
    Continue? [no]: yes
    Run connection check to master
    Connection check OK
    Configuring NTP daemon (ntpd)
      [1/4]: stopping ntpd
      [2/4]: writing configuration
      [3/4]: configuring ntpd to start on boot
      [4/4]: starting ntpd
    Done configuring NTP daemon (ntpd).
    Configuring directory server (dirsrv). Estimated time: 1 minute

.. tip::

>     It's ok if ipa-replica-install gives error about "Reverse DNS resolution".

Reviewer 2: Even though I do understand this comment about "this error is ok, but this one is bad" it still chafes on me. 

Could we at least have a link or something to a "Troubleshooting guide" or something additionally at least? I'm not sure if I'd like to replace the entire tip with a link to it or just parts of it, or just an additional piece of information but... this is an very arbitrary list of errors right now.

Author: Moving the error to the troubleshooting section. Also clarifying about the "false" error message.

Author: Please resolve if you're satisfied :)

    But if the installation fails with the following.

    .. code-block:: none

        [error] RuntimeError: failed to create ds instance Command '/usr/sbin/setup-ds --silent --logfile - -f /tmp/tmpuhBVEm' returned non-zero exit status 1

    It may be that you either misconfigured /etc/hosts or need to add a reverse
    DNS entry for the replica.

Setup DNS on replica
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> It's a good idea to setup DNS on at least on of your replicas and use it as a

Reviewer 2: "on at least one..."

    This program will setup DNS for the FreeIPA Server.

    This includes:
      * Configure DNS (bind)
      * Configure SoftHSM (required by DNSSEC)
      * Configure ipa-dnskeysyncd (required by DNSSEC)

    NOTE: DNSSEC zone signing is not enabled by default

    To accept the default shown in brackets, press the Enter key.

    Do you want to configure DNS forwarders? [yes]: 
    Following DNS servers are configured in /etc/resolv.conf: 198.51.100.53, 192.0.2.66, 192.0.2.67
    Do you want to configure these servers as DNS forwarders? [yes]: no
    Enter an IP address for a DNS forwarder, or press Enter to skip: 192.0.2.66
    DNS forwarder 192.0.2.66 added. You may add another.
    Enter an IP address for a DNS forwarder, or press Enter to skip: 192.0.2.67
    DNS forwarder 192.0.2.67 added. You may add another.
    Enter an IP address for a DNS forwarder, or press Enter to skip: 
    Checking DNS forwarders, please wait ...
    Do you want to search for missing reverse zones? [yes]: 

    The following operations may take some minutes to complete.
    Please wait until the prompt is returned.

> If the installation fails, follow the instructions in the troubleshooting section

Reviewer: As @frznlogic has already mentioned, shouldn't all the above be part of the "Troubleshooting"? This is troubleshooting to me: issue description -> possible cause(s) and proposed solution(s)

Author: Yes, moving this to the troubleshooting section.

Reviewer: Could you add a link to the Replica Troubleshooting section from here?

    # Should return "no such user"
    id someldapuser

Replica

> ^^^^^^^

Reviewer: I would prefer some headers within this section. If possible, it makes it easier to scan through faster without having to text-search.

Author: Added that but it starts to feel like an american research paper with infinite levels of subsections.

Reviewer: Haha sorry. I don't feel it's necessary, but I prefer it since it usually makes the process of troubleshooting a little easier.

> If any of the steps fails during installation you need to run 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of the steps fail during installation you need to run 
```

``ipa-server-install --uninstall`` a few times to clean the system. 2-3 should
do it. This is to ensure all configurations are cleared if you tried installing
multiple times. After that you need to re-enroll the client before continuing

> with ``ipa-client-install --enable-dns-updates --force-join`` (Don't forget to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with ``ipa-client-install --enable-dns-updates --force-join`` (Do not forget to
```

re-enable mkhomedir).

If you find yourself re-installing FreeIPA server you will run into certificate
problems when accessing the Web UI. This is because the certificate server

> doesn't randomize the ID:s of the generated certificates. So the browser won't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not randomize the ID:s of the generated certificates, this is since the browser will not
```

> accept seeing a different certificate with the same Domain, Subject and Serial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accept different certificates with the same Domain, Subject and Serial
```
Maybe? I'm assuming this means that if it finds a second certificate with the same Domain/Subject/Serial number it won't like it.

> Number. To mitigate this you can either pass the an argument during installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number. To mitigate this you can either pass an argument during installation
```

Author: Good catch

      SubjectAltNameWarning
    Configuring certificate server (pki-tomcatd). Estimated time: 3 minutes 30 seconds
      [1/23]: creating certificate server user
      [2/23]: creating certificate server db
      [3/23]: setting up initial replication
    Starting replication, please wait until this has completed.
    Update in progress, 3 seconds elapsed
    Update succeeded

      [4/23]: creating installation admin user
      [5/23]: setting up certificate server
    ipa.ipaserver.install.cainstance.CAInstance: CRITICAL Failed to configure CA instance: Command '/usr/sbin/pkispawn -s CA -f /tmp/tmpkb9ORA' returned non-zero exit status 1
    ipa.ipaserver.install.cainstance.CAInstance: CRITICAL See the installation logs and the following files/directories for more information:
    ipa.ipaserver.install.cainstance.CAInstance: CRITICAL   /var/log/pki/pki-tomcat
      [error] RuntimeError: CA configuration failed.

> It may mean that it cannot find java. You need to make sure /bin/java exists. If it doesn't, symlink it to the proper place. In Ubuntu 16.04:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may mean that it cannot find java. You need to make sure /bin/java exists. If it does not, symlink it to the proper place. In Ubuntu 16.04:
```

    # Should return "no such user"
    id someldapuser

Replica
^^^^^^^

If any of the steps fails during installation you need to run 
``ipa-server-install --uninstall`` a few times to clean the system. 2-3 should

> do it. After that you need to re-enroll the client before continuing with

Reviewer 2: This is awkward. Why does it need to be uninstalled 2-3 times?

Reviewer: I understand that since this is a how-to it's good to include this type of troubleshooting info, but I agree that something about the "it often fails and you need to uninstall many times to fix it" phrasing feels a bit off anyway. I don't have any good ideas on how to rephrase it though.

Author: Tried to give a reasonable explanation as to why. I can't change the underlying cause tho.

``ipa-client-install --enable-dns-updates --force-join`` (Don't forget to
re-enable mkhomedir).

If you find yourself re-installing FreeIPA server you will run into certificate
problems when accessing the Web UI. This is because the certificate server
doesn't randomize the ID:s of the generated certificates. So the browser won't
accept seeing a different certificate with the same Domain, Subject and Serial
Number. To mitigate this you can either pass the an argument during installation
to change the Subject or configure the Dogtag server to randomize ID:s.

Set the subject:

.. code-block:: bash

>     ipa-server-install --setup-dns --hostname=ipa.example.com.com --realm=IPA.EXAMPLE.COM --domain=ipa.example.com --subject="O=EXAMPLE.COM 20181112"

Reviewer: "hostname=ipa.example.com.com" is this extra "com" on purpose?

Author: Good catch

      SubjectAltNameWarning
    Configuring certificate server (pki-tomcatd). Estimated time: 3 minutes 30 seconds
      [1/23]: creating certificate server user
      [2/23]: creating certificate server db
      [3/23]: setting up initial replication
    Starting replication, please wait until this has completed.
    Update in progress, 3 seconds elapsed
    Update succeeded

      [4/23]: creating installation admin user
      [5/23]: setting up certificate server
    ipa.ipaserver.install.cainstance.CAInstance: CRITICAL Failed to configure CA instance: Command '/usr/sbin/pkispawn -s CA -f /tmp/tmpkb9ORA' returned non-zero exit status 1
    ipa.ipaserver.install.cainstance.CAInstance: CRITICAL See the installation logs and the following files/directories for more information:
    ipa.ipaserver.install.cainstance.CAInstance: CRITICAL   /var/log/pki/pki-tomcat
      [error] RuntimeError: CA configuration failed.

> It may mean that it cannot find java. You need to make sure /bin/java exists. If it doesn't, symlink it to the proper place. In Ubuntu 16.04:

Reviewer 2: This is being mentioned for the third time here I think. Could/should there be a troubleshooting section or something and all the problems be broken out into that one so that the "normal" workflow is handled first and if something breaks, it can be described in the troubleshooting section?

Author: Isn't that how it's currently handled? The java path gotcha is described in the installation step and then again in the troubleshooting section if you miss it.

I just wanted to include it for all relevant errors I came across. Because it was very unclear why the installation was failing in these cases and I wasted a lot of time finding out it was a missing path.
